.TH httpd 8 "February 1997"
.\" The Apache Software License, Version 1.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2001 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights
.\" reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,
.\"    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:
.\"       "This product includes software developed by the
.\"        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."
.\"    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,
.\"    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.
.\"
.\" 4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must
.\"    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\"    software without prior written permission. For written
.\"    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",
.\"    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written
.\"    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
.\" individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more
.\" information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see
.\" <http://www.apache.org/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
httpd \- Apache hypertext transfer protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B httpd 
[
.BI \-d " serverroot"
] [
.BI \-f " config"
] [
.BI \-C " directive"
] [
.BI \-c " directive"
] [
.BI \-D " parameter"
]

.B httpd 
[
.B \-h
] 
[
.B \-l
] 
[
.B \-L
] 
[
.B \-v
] 
[
.B \-V
] 
[
.B \-t
] 
[
.B \-X
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B httpd
is the Apache HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) server program. It is
designed to be run as a standalone daemon process. When used like this
it will create a pool of child processes to handle requests. To stop
it, send a TERM signal to the initial (parent) process. The PID of
this process is written to a file as given in the configuration file.
.PP
This manual page only lists the command line arguments. For details
of the directives necessary to configure 
.B httpd
see the Apache manual,
which is part of the Apache distribution or can be found at
http://httpd.apache.org/. Paths in this manual may not reflect those
compiled into 
.B httpd.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-d " serverroot"
Set the initial value for the ServerRoot directive to \fIserverroot\fP. This
can be overridden by the ServerRoot command in the configuration file. The
default is \fB/usr/local/apache2\fP.
.TP
.BI \-f " config"
Execute the commands in the file \fIconfig\fP on startup. If \fIconfig\fP
does not begin with a /, then it is taken to be a path relative to
the ServerRoot. The default is \fBconf/httpd.conf\fP.
.TP
.BI \-C " directive"
Process the configuration \fIdirective\fP before reading config files.
.TP
.BI \-c " directive"
Process the configuration \fIdirective\fP after reading config files.
.TP
.BI \-D " parameter"
Sets a configuration \fIparameter\fP which can be used with
<IfDefine>...</IfDefine> sections in the configuration files
to conditionally skip or process commands.
.TP
.B \-h
Output a short summary of available command line options.
.TP
.B \-l
Output a list of modules compiled into the server.
.TP
.B \-L
Output a list of directives together with expected arguments and
places where the directive is valid.
.TP
.B \-S
Show the settings as parsed from the config file (currently only shows the
virtualhost settings).
.TP
.B \-t
Run syntax tests for configuration files only. The program immediately exits
after these syntax parsing with either a return code of 0 (Syntax OK) or
return code not equal to 0 (Syntax Error).  If 
.BI \-D " DUMP_VHOSTS"
is also set, details of the virtual host configuration will be printed.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the version of 
.B httpd
, and then exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version and build parameters of 
.B httpd
, and then exit.
.TP
.B \-X
Run
.B httpd
in debug mode.  Only one worker will be started and the server will not detach
from the console.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.B /usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf
.br
.B /usr/local/apache2/conf/mime.types
.br
.B /usr/local/apache2/conf/magic
.br
.B /usr/local/apache2/logs/error_log
.br
.B /usr/local/apache2/logs/access_log
.br
.B /usr/local/apache2/logs/httpd.pid
