.TH rotatelogs 8 "March 2001"
.\" The Apache Software License, Version 1.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2003 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights
.\" reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,
.\"    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:
.\"       "This product includes software developed by the
.\"        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."
.\"    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,
.\"    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.
.\"
.\" 4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must
.\"    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\"    software without prior written permission. For written
.\"    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",
.\"    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written
.\"    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
.\" individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more
.\" information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see
.\" <http://www.apache.org/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
rotatelogs \- rotate Apache logs without having to kill the server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rotatelogs
.I logfile
.I rotationtime
.I [offset]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rotatelogs
is a simple program for use in conjunction with Apache's piped logfile
feature, which can be used like this:

.fi
CustomLog "|bin/rotatelogs /var/logs/logfile 86400" common
.mf

This creates the files /var/logs/logfile.nnnn where nnnn is the system
time at which the log nominally starts (this time will always be a multiple of
the rotation time, so you can synchronize cron scripts with it).  At the end
of each rotation time (here after 24 hours) a new log is started.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\fIlogfile\fP
The path plus basename of the logfile.  If \fBlogfile\fP includes any
\'%\' characters, it is treated as a format string for \fIstrftime(3)\fP.
Otherwise, the suffix .nnnnnnnnnn is automatically added and is the time
in seconds.  Both formats compute the start time from the beginning of the
current period.
.IP \fB\fIrotationtime\fP
The rotation time in seconds.
.IP \fB\fIoffset\fP
The number of minutes offset from UTC.  If omitted, zero is assumed and
UTC is used.  For example, to use local time in the zone UTC -5 hours,
specify a value of \fI-300\fP for this argument.
.SH PORTABILITY
The following logfile format string substitutions should be supported by
all \fIstrftime(3)\fP implementations, see the \fIstrftime(3)\fP man page
for library-specific extensions.
.IP %A
full weekday name (localized)
.IP %a
3-character weekday name (localized)
.IP %B
full month name (localized)
.IP %b
3-character month name (localized)
.IP %c
date and time (localized)
.IP %d
2-digit day of month
.IP %H
2-digit hour (24 hour clock)
.IP %I
2-digit hour (12 hour clock)
.IP %j
3-digit day of year
.IP %M
2-digit minute
.IP %m
2-digit month
.IP %p
am/pm of 12 hour clock (localized)
.IP %S
2-digit second
.IP %U
2-digit week of year (Sunday first day of week)
.IP %W
2-digit week of year (Monday first day of week)
.IP %w
1-digit weekday (Sunday first day of week)
.IP %X
time (localized)
.IP %x
date (localized)
.IP %Y
4-digit year
.IP %y
2-digit year
.IP %Z
time zone name
.IP %%
literal `%'
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR httpd(8)
